# Tests for Success
Tests take a number forms and draw upon a variety of attributes, skills and factors, but ultimately the goal is the same - to achieve a net TWO successes. Achieving two success is always enough to gain a base success, the difficulty of a test is handled via the additional of resistance penalty dice or with an opposed roll. Gaining more than two successes is an indication of greater level of success, which in some circumstances can improve or expand on the success.

> E.g. 6Bd: 5, 5, 4, 3, 1, 1 = 2 net successes
> or 5Bd: 6, 5, 3, 2, 2  & 2Pd: 2, 2 = 0 net successes and a failure

What about ONE success? It is close and triggers the option of a YES, BUT result if the character can pay a meaningful price to achieve a success. The penalty could be narrative, could be a currency costs (attribute pool) or the addition of a persistent penalty - this is determined in negotiation with the Director.

> E.g. 4Bd: 5, 2, 2, 1 = 1 net success requiring an additional price to be paid to succeed.

A CRITICAL success is achieved when 3 or more "6"s are rolled in the positive dice pools (Base, Dramatic Risk or Passion). Count the total number of "6"s in the positive dice pool, and deduct the number of "1"s in the negative dice pool, the result is added to the number of successes total. A critical result in combat has an additional effect [TODO link]

> E.g. rolling 7Bd: 6, 6, 6, 5, 3, 3, 1  plus 4Pd: 4, 4, 2, 1 creates an initial 2 net successes (4 positive and 2 negative). The 3 "6"s reveal a critical, which adds 2 (3-1) additional successes to the original result, bringing the final result to 4. 

#  **Base Attribute Test**
A simple attribute test is used as a basic and catch-all test, either opposed or unopposed. The pool is built from the attribute + situational modifiers and penalty dice.

An attribute check can sometimes be used where there isn’t an applicable skills, but never in place of a skill. This test is based on one of the Phy Agl Men Soc attributes.

 >_E.g. A cart wheel stuck in a rutted track, a straightforward challenge requiring 2 successes on a Physical attribute check. Young William puts his shoulder to the wheel and rolls his physical of 2._

> _He fails to move the cart and calls to his friend Peter of Lynn, who puts his shoulder to the other wheel and provides his 2 physical to help. The two roll (2 and 2) achieving 3 successes between them and they shove the cart free of the rut._

# **Skill Tests**

Skill tests can contain a number of combinations; single test, opposed, co-operative, multiple opponents and could consist of a single test or a series of tests.

For unopposed tests, calculate the dice pool and roll to determine the number of successes to compare with the target number.

For opposed tests, the parties calculate their dice pools and then compare the results to determine the levels of success.

For complex or co-operative tests, additional dice can be added to a pool from assisting parties, pools can be split against multiple opponents and the test can be a series of tests,

  

## **Skill or Unopposed Tests**

A simple unopposed test pits the skill of a person against the level of difficulty of a challenge. A dice pool is created based on skills, situation and penalties which are rolled against a target number of successes.

  

## **Levels of Difficulty**

Level of difficulty is reflected in the addition of penalty/resistance dice to the pool so that the target number is always 2 success to pass the test.

Very Easy through formidable

+2Bd / 0 / 2Pd / 4Pd / 6Pd / 8Pd








