# **Four Core Attributes**
Four attributes are the basis of the characters statistical description and provide the foundation values for skill checks.

-   **Physical**
-   **Agility**
-   **Mental**
-   **Social**

Each attribute from -3 up to 8

-   -3 represents incapacity
-   0 or less represent a weakness
-   1-2 represents average
-   3-4 is good
-   5 is greatly superior
-   6+ is extraordinary

# **Four Attribute Pools**
Secondary Attribute Pools provide a finite pool or currency which are initially derived from the core attributes. 
Maximum Attribute Pool values are determined [TODO LINK] and record. The current pool value is tracked separately as the pool can be reduced as a result of the outcome of situations, and recover with the passage of time. 


-   **Flesh** =  physical health and core strength derived from the Physical attribute. Flesh damage represents a physical wound, recovery is a slow and potentially fraught journey.
-   **Fortitude** = mental strength and sanity derived from the Mental attribute. Fortitude can be reduced by shocking or horrifying situations. Recovery is a slow process.

When Flesh or Fortitude pools are reduced to 50% or less the character gains +1 penalty die. 
If Flesh or Fortitude pools reach ZERO the character is out of play, either dying or potentially permanently insane. [TODO LINK]

-   **Grit** = quickness and good luck derived from the Agility attribute. Grit reduction reflects fatigue or the use of luck or experience to avoid physical harm. Recovery is a relatively quick process, measured in hours.
-   **Composure** = confidence, social resilience to persuasion derived from the Social attribute. Composure is reduced in challenging, tense or social situations and it can recovered fairly quickly.
[TODO could this be called Confidence rather than Composure?]

When Grit or Composure are reduced to ZERO gain +1 penalty die. Subsequent reductions to Grit or Composure are passed directly to Flesh or Fortitude.

# Drama Points

# Penalty Dice