People are complex and varied, capturing and describing their personality and motivations is done through a matrix of definitions.

# Guiding Traits
Up to three guiding traits are recorded to help define a characters personality and approach to life. The traits can contribute mechanically to situations, but are **mostly** used to guide and drive role playing, decision making and consistent action. 
Primary trait is the single most dominant trait and can apply +3B dice to a pool when directly applicable.
Secondary 2B and Tertiary 1B add more depth and color to a character's personality.

Example traits;
- Loyal
- Self Controlled
- Persistent
- Spiritual
- Impatient
- Greedy
- Cruel
- Unforgiving
- Ambitious
- Fearless
- Vengeful
- Calculating
- Desperate
- Persuasive
- Twisted
- Faith/Principle
- Worldly
- Courageous
- Cowardly
- Honest & Fair
- Deceitful/Untrustworthy
- Abstaining
- Indulgent
- Shrewd
- Rash
- Insecure/Humble
- Proud/Narcissist
- Kind/Forgiving
- Callous/Vengeful
- Amiable/Generous
- Greedy/Selfish
- Angry
- Calm
- Gossip

[TODO tidy up for PC traits, with example application]

# Scars & Strengths
Scars and Strengths are two sides of the same coin, moments which have left a lasting mark on a character's psyche. When a dramatic and impactful event occurs it can be seen as something which has a lasting and mechanical effect on the character.

Scars are negatives events which haunt a person, perhaps a fear or phobia, or a memory of situation with great consequence or impact to that person.

Strength is the positive consequence of events or dramatic situations, the experience of which will positive impact future interactions of this nature.

# Dramatic Passions
Dramatic passions are deeply held, sometimes are overwhelming and always core to a person's actions. Gaining a dramatic passion is usually the result of an event, situation or consequence of role playing. 
A person can have **up to** THREE different dramatic passions, each is rated as a Passion (2D), Strong Passion (3D) or an Intense Passion (4D).
When called upon in support of an action or test, PASSION dice are 

# Bonds
Bonds represent the strong, re-assuring connections, faith and relationships that influence people's personality and choices. A bond provides a strength which can be used in support or against appropriate situations, providing positive dice. 

Bonds are forged around connections which can be relied on. Normal subjects include family, friendship, fellowship, belief or faith but could also include a reliance on a drug or object. A bond can be recognized based on anything which is important to the character, one caveat, bonds must be able to be broken or shaken.
- Family - Either a general familial bond or specific bond between family members.
- Friendship - Closeness, love or respect of friendship
- Fellowship - fraternity, society or the bonds of belonging which comes from be part of something larger than oneself
- Belief or Faith - religion, doctrine, science 
- Reliance on... - something which gives the character confidence, reprieve from fears or pressure and without which they are 'in pieces'

When a Bond is gained or recognized, it can contribute to a person’s Composure. When a Bond is broken, it can also reduce Composure.

